---
creation_date: 2024-02-08 19:57
data_creació: 2024-06-25 09:24
data_modificació: 2024-06-29 23:29
modification date: Thursday 8th February 2024 19:57:24
relay-document: c4a31817-d3c6-46b8-be82-660bce73cb9b
relay-to:
  - news@relay.md
summary: Release of v1.9.0 of relay.md
tags:
  - relaymd
  - relaymd/journal
type: uniquenote
---

# Changes to our plans
As you may have noticed already, we made some changes to our plans.
Most prominently, **private teams are now free** for up to 10MiB of notes and attachments.
You can find all the plans [here](https://relay.md/pricing).

You've read that right, we are in the final testing to have attachments shared along your notes and hope to get the plugin released sometime in February 2024.

Furthermore, we are polishing the **library** which will allow to browse shared documents of a team grouped by topic.

# Open-sourcing relay.md
In parallel to building new features, we are evaluating our options to making the backend software open-source, or at least the core components of what relay.md has to offer.
We recognize the need for businesses to hold their hands on the documents they share and understand their reluctance to share their knowledge through a 3rd party API. By releasing the backend software we enable these businesses to operated their relay.md API in a self-hosted manner.
THe Obsidian plugin is already prepared accordingly and is awaiting approval to get into Community Plugins. by Obsidian developers.

We are eager to hear your thoughts about our plans, if you like them, what you don't like, what you would like to see. Feel free to through them all at us through our [contact form](https://relay.md/contact)