
1. Introduction DeSciWorld is a community-driven initiative aiming to facilitate the on-boarding of people into the decentralized science (DeSci) space. By providing a suite of products and services that engage and empower would be DeScientists, we will support a second renaissance of science that is inclusive to all, including those peoples and ideas previously left “on the outside” due to economic, social or cultural barriers within academia. DeSci implements blockchain-based solutions such as Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), smart contracts, and cryptocurrencies to decentralize and revolutionize the world of scientific research and its traditional funding and publication landscape. No one has managerial control over DeSciWorld nor provides essential managerial efforts that affect its success as the DeSciWorld ecosystem has a fully decentralized structure. 2. The problem & solution Institutional constraints via selective funding and misaligned incentives have limited scientific innovation. The DeSci movement proposes to correct these constraints by decentralizing, among others, institutional gatekeepers, funding bodies and publication journals, giving science back to the people. Lack of diversity and representation is another serious issue facing traditional academia. Even so, the current DeSci community is nascent and still disorganized. DeSciWorld aims to address this by becoming a starting point from which everyone should be able to dive into the DeSci space, a resource-oriented focal point for the DeSci community. 3. Products & services 3.1 DeSci Dashboard The DeSciWorld Dashboard is a free-to-use online information hub that aggregates and displays information about DeSci projects in an easily digestible format. We aim for it to 1 become a primary resource for learning about all that DeSci has to offer. It allows researchers/academics/VCs/non-scientists to obtain information about all DeSci-relevant projects. Scientists / DeSciDAOs / other people related to DeSci can also expand outreach for their work, grow networks, access resources from a huge and growing community and even apply for funding. 3.1.1 Main dashboard 2 3.1.2 Individual project pages Project pages display relevant information about individual DeSci projects, such as information about tokens and governance proposals, media embeds, short descriptions and relevant links. These pages allow users to get a quick overview of a project before fully diving into their community. 3 3.2 NFT Spotlight The NFT Spotlight features projects that utilize NFTs to combine art and science in a biweekly cadence. DeSciWorld enables users to mint, view and share these exclusive project launches. We aim to feature impactful projects that best represent the DeSci space. 3.2.1 Minting contracts The DeSciWorld development team will help produce minting contracts for NFT project partners. We currently offer a standardized minting contract on the Ethereum mainnet coupled with any technical support that may be necessary to help partners launch an NFT project. Minting is hosted on the DeSciWorld website, but can also be hosted on the individual project site. 3.2.2 Spotlight In addition to technical assistance, we provide outreach for impactful projects. During the biweekly period that the project is featured as DeSciWorld’s NFT Spotlight, the sale will appear on the desci.world landing page and the cover of the NFT Products section. During the duration of the project spotlight, the project team will receive exclusive rights to the #💎¦spotlight channel on DeSciWorld Discord, and DeSciWorld will collaborate to organize AMAs and other signal boosting events. 4 3.2.3 Community construction We aim to help new and developing projects build a strong and thriving community for their launch. As a continued service beyond the Spotlight period, collaborators will be granted ongoing access to highlighted channels in our discord and twitter lists for future announcements and referrals between our communities. 3.2.4 Collection on NFTKEY DeSciWorld has an exclusive long-term partnership with NFTKEY, a curated NFT marketplace and gallery, where we have been given a separate and dedicated interface for hosting and sharing DeSci NFTs. Featured projects on the NFT Spotlight will also receive a guaranteed space on the NFTKEY platform. 3.3 P2P Grant funding platform The DeSciWorld peer-to-peer (P2P) platform is designed to connect researchers, scientists and experts to decentralized funding channels. As a P2P marketplace, this platform facilitates trade between two or more private individuals. The decentralized transaction infrastructure of Web3 and blockchain allows researchers and funders to connect without the need for a centralized mediator. The DeSciWorld marketplace is trustless and transparent. All users must sign up to the platform using either a public or anonymous profile; this profile receives reputation points based on a number of factors, still to be defined. This reputation, combined with smart contract-enabled escrow, allows our users to interact confidently with each other independent of trust. 3.4 Community as a Service (CaaS) The CaaS model is designed to allow researchers or organizations to outsource their research requirements to a globally distributed community of DeScientists. The CaaS infrastructure is a core value proposition for the DeSciWorld ecosystem. In this worked example, we assume payment in $USDC (this could be any token payment in theory, including the $DSCI token). The CaaS model is described below: 5 6 3.4.1 Contributor Registration Those that wish to contribute to the CaaS model must first be registered to the DeSciWorld CaaS portal. The registered profile will be linked to a Web3 Wallet. Registrations can be either anonymous or non-anonymous; the Contributor must choose this. Registration will entail provision of certain information such as “academic background”, “location”, “field work capable” etc. The registered profile, along with submitted information, will be available for viewing by the Client and Community Working Groups to allow for scheduling and matching to required services. 3.4.2 Client Request Submission A Client may decide to either: a) create a custom CaaS request or; b) select from options advertised in the CaaS portal. The latter is for mainly illustrative purposes, to demonstrate the diversity of choice and to demonstrate the standard structure of operations. Once a Client has had their request reviewed and accepted by the Community Working Group, they will be invited to stake and lock the required payment in $USDC tokens. This is held in escrow until the task is completed by the Working Group. Upon completion of the task, the Client is required to release the escrow to the Working Group so that payments can be distributed. 3.4.3 Feedback and Arbitration The CaaS model is new within the DeSci space and we are pioneering its first implementation. For the benefit of the Client, and the project itself, feedback is incredibly important. Each time a CaaS task has been fulfilled, the Client is invited to fill out a feedback form to help us evaluate the process. At the point of payment release outlined in Section 3.4.2, if a Client is dissatisfied with the service they have received, they are entitled to enter into an Arbitration process with DeSciWorld DAO. The result of the Arbitration process will determine whether the CaaS payment is returned partially or in full to the Client, or if it is released to the Working Group to be distributed amongst the Contributors. 3.4.4 Planned Future Iterations As our CaaS becomes more widely trusted and used, the sophistication of the process will increase. Future iterations will include on-chain reputation systems for Contributors, embedded collaborations with other DeSci projects on initiatives such as decentralized 7 publishing, peer reviewing, data storage and research outsourced to DeSciWorld by institutions and universities. 3.5 Microbes NFT 3.5.1 The collection Microbes, an NFT collection, is a series of images collected from thousands of hours of research by microbiologists friendly to the project. Originally a private fundraising mechanic devised by the Founding Team, Microbes represents an early foray into Sci-Art and decentralized fundraising. Deadly viruses, microorganisms, psychedelic compounds and ancient single-cell organisms are some of the subjects that form parts of the resulting NFT collection. The Microbes collection contains 999 unique pieces, minted on the Ethereum blockchain for 0.088ETH per mint. Whilst created outside of the DeSciWorld DAO’s jurisdiction, Microbes sales have been used by the Founding Team to fund operations in the bootstrapping phase of DeSciWorld’s growth. Thus, Microbes NFT holders are currently qualified to receive the following privileges: - Redistribution lottery events: DeSciWorld intends to accumulate digital assets from the DeSci and greater Web3 ecosystem for periodical redistribution to Microbes holders via lottery-style raffles. - NFT Launchpad preferential access: Microbe NFT holders are rewarded with privileges on our NFT Launchpad platform such as potential presale positions and gallery curator decisions. - Unlockable content: Certain Microbes NFTs contain unlockable content such as additional research data, reports, and even raw image files. The content is hosted on IPFS and made available through our website, secured through Web3 wallet integration. This unlockable content serves to enhance the artistic value of the Microbes NFTs. - Experimental implementations: Creative mechanics such as lock-ups, burns and staking may also be employed to bring the worlds of DeFi and DeSci together. 8 - Access to special events/areas: VIP chat, special events at DeSci conferences, an airdrop, or merch distribution, the Microbes NFT will serve as the universal access pass. 3.5.2 “Early Adopter” rights Ethereum wallet addresses that mint a Microbes NFT before the official launch of the DeSciWorld token ($DSCI) will be recognized within the DeSciWorld community as an “Early Adopter”. Early Adopter roles belong to the specific wallet addresses that mint Microbes and may receive additional benefits such as preferential access to initiatives to be confirmed by the DeSciWorld DAO. 3.5.3 Proceeds from sale The Microbes NFT was created by a private entity, outside of the DeSciWorld DAO. Thus, the DAO has no control over the proceeds of the sale. Ostensibly, the funds are used to assist in the initial bootstrapping phase of the DAO’s existence. Further, Microbes has a 5% royalty fee on all sales. 4. $DSCI Token LEGAL DISCLOSURE The discussion herein (Section 4) is purely descriptive, not prescriptive, and does not represent a predetermined decision for the release of the $DSCI token. All decisions pertaining to the launch and release of the $DSCI token are to be carried out by the DeSciWorld pre-DAO, as discussed in Section 5.4. The following information is subject to change as new ideas or tooling becomes available closer to the launch. The planned time of launch is towards the end of 2022. Despite the intentionally small initial market capitalization, we cannot predict whether the $DSCI token will retain its monetary value in the future. $DSCI token may lose its value if it does not receive adoption. At the same time, $DSCI token value may arise because of the network effect, as more people believe in its intrinsic value and utility. 9 No one has managerial control over $DSCI nor provides essential managerial efforts that affect its success as the DeSciWorld ecosystem has a fully decentralized structure. Special thanks to Spool DAO for their inspiration with tokenomics and Pre-DAO structure. 4.1 Token Issuance DeSciWorld will not conduct a token sale or receive any funds from investors. 100% of the total $DSCI token supply will be issued to the Uniswap market (with either $USDC, $DAI or $ETH as the base LP pair) with intentionally low initial market cap to allow early adopters to establish inexpensive exposure to $DSCI if they believe it will have a larger market in the future. No $DSCI tokens will ever be premined or retained by the project developers. $DSCI has a predetermined finite supply and no more additional $DSCI tokens will ever be minted. 4.2 DAO-Owned Liquidity Under proposed measures, the DeSciWorld pre-DAO may vote to launch 100% of the $DSCI token supply onto Uniswap v2 coupled with a determined amount of $USDC or $ETH in liquidity pairing. The DeSciWorld DAO would then own the UNI-V2 LP token that is issued upon formation of a Liquidity Pool. This LP would represent the initial amount of $DSCI / $[funding token] that was deployed to Uniswap v2 and will be locked for an amount of time determined by the DAO. 4.3 Potential Token Utilities The $DSCI token primarily facilitates governance of the DeSciWorld DAO. Some potential token utilities, the implementation of which is to decided by the pre-DAO, are listed below: 4.3.1 $veDSCI The $DSCI token could be staked to earn $veDSCI. The $veDSCI token is a model that incentivises long-term ecosystem participants by emitting on a linear scale over 3 years, which resets upon unstaking. $veDSCI is used to govern the DeSciWorld DAO, as outlined in 10 Section 6, meaning that only those who stake $DSCI have governance power. This ensures that those with the longest term commitment have the most say in protocol governance. 4.3.1.2 $veDSCI Mechanics $veDSCI starts accumulating the next epoch after a user has staked their $DSCI Tokens. It accumulates at a rate of 1/156 per $DSCI Token, per week (one epoch is one week) and maxes out at 1 per staked $DSCI Token. Staking additional $DSCI Tokens increases the $veDSCI received in the next epoch after staking and does not reset the $veDSCI counter. A user is free to stake additional $DSCI tokens whenever they desire. Users are free to withdraw their $DSCI stake at any given point in time, however, withdrawing any amount of staked $DSCI will reset the accumulated amount of $veDSCI back to zero. 4.3.2 Revenue Sharing Staking $DSCI could also allow $veDSCI holders to receive a share of any potential revenues accrued by the DeSciWorld platform. This Revenue Stream, which is garnered from DeSciWorld’s products, is explored in Section 7.1.1. 4.3.3 Discount on in-app Purchases $DSCI may also be used in a variety of cases instead of standard payment tokens (stablecoins or $ETH, for example) to receive discounts on purchase prices. Merchandise, event tickets, payment for “CaaS” (Section 3.4), exclusive media content, NFT sales etc. may all feature. 4.3 Tokenomics $DSCI - An ERC-20 token with 2 decimals; no transfer penalties. $DSCI could potentially be staked to earn shares of protocol fees and $veDSCI emissions, under proposed models. Total supply TBC. $veDSCI - A non-transferrable, non-tradable token that is used for protocol governance. If a user unstakes their $DSCI tokens, they will lose their accumulated $veDSCI. Supply is determined by the amount of $DSCI staked. 11 $preSCI - A valueless token that represents the holder’s membership to the pre-DAO and is used solely to vote on preDAO proposals. $pre-veSCI - A token identical in form and function to $veDSCI, except given immediately upon $DSCI genesis to holders of $preSCI. More details found in Section 5.4.3. 4.4 Layer-2 Deployment The $DSCI token will initially be launched on Ethereum mainnet but the DeSciWorld DAO may quickly choose to port to an appropriate low-cost L2 or side-chain network to provide the best possible blockchain experience to the DeSciWorld community. 5. DeSciWorld DAO ecosystem The DeSciWorld DAO ecosystem is composed of the interactions between our Community, Governance, Treasury and Products, as pictured below: 12 5.1 Community DeSciWorld values inclusion and therefore openly welcomes members. Members may be incentivised through DAO-funded rewards (in treasury held currencies such $ETH, $USDC or $DSCI, or alternative rewards like NFTs) by contributing to various engagement initiatives such as performing specific tasks, joining a working group, or participating in CaaS. 5.2 Governance To participate in the DeSciWorld DAO governance, a user needs to stake their $DSCI tokens. Once a user stakes their $DSCI they receive $veDSCI, which can be used to vote on existing proposals and additionally submit their own proposals. 5.3 Treasury & Product The Treasury WG is required to process the Budget requests from Community, Governance and Product working groups. Using formal proposals the community can vote on the allocation of treasury funds for a variety of DeSciWorld endeavors (outlined in Section 6.4). 5.4 Supporters (Pre-DAO) The group of contributors that provide pre-launch support are referred to as the Supporters, but are more easily understood as a Pre-DAO. The Supporters are composed of thought leaders and respected industry figures, representing a diverse cross-section of the blockchain communities in DeSci, DeFi and DAOs , along with more traditional partners. The pre-DAO is a group of people united by a collective interest to help the formation and progression of the subsequent DeSciWorld DAO. 5.4.1 Pre-DAO Membership Pre-DAO membership is invite only and is signified by the possession of the $preSCI token. Pre-DAO members were selected and invited by the Founding Team to maximize early stage impact for DeSciWorld’s development; only the highest quality participants are invited to join. The full list of Pre-DAO members will be released upon or before the launch of the $DSCI token. 13 5.4.2 Pre-DAO Governance The $preSCI token governs the DeSciWorld PreDAO and any related treasuries through simple token-weighted voting on Snapshot. Any related treasuries will be held in a Gnosis Safe multisignature wallet consisting of the top 15 holders of $preSCI and 5 members of the Core Team with a required sign quorum of 13 of 20. $preSCI holders outside of the top 20 will also be able to partake in governance. 5.4.3 Pre-DAO Progressive Dissolution Upon the launch of $DSCI, $preSCI holders are immediately given $pre-veDSCI proportional to their holdings of $preSCI. $pre-veDSCI functions the same as $ve-DSCI. Thus, in the earliest stages of $DSCI’s existence, the Pre-DAO members will have the largest holdings of governance-capable tokens ($pre-veDSCI) and therefore the most power in early DAO governance. The Pre-DAO will act as the guardians of the DeSciWorld DAO in the early stages, to support governance proposals and ensure that malicious attacks do not occur on the ecosystem or treasury. As the Pre-DAO’s LP allocations unlock, those that claim will immediately forfeit their $pre-veDSCI (proportional to their claim) thus relinquishing that portion of their voting power. As the allocation vesting completes and LP shares are claimed, the Pre-DAO governance power is removed, leaving full DAO control to the DeSciWorld community. The Pre-DAO members that claim their LP can then stake any $DSCI tokens to receive $veDSCI - the same method as all community members. 6. DAO governance & operations A DAO is a decentralized organization that utilizes automated technologies to remove requirements of trust in the individual and to empower the collective. We aim to keep DeSciWorld at the forefront of this innovation through continuous collaboration internally, with the DAO participants, and externally with other DAOs. Below we describe how DeSciWorld operates and the mechanisms by which $DSCI token holders will govern: 14 6.1 Members DeSciWorld is an open community for anyone interested in DeSci. It is managed by teams of elected members under the guise of working groups (WG). But, anyone can contribute by serving on a working group project or working on specific tasks. 6.1.1 Election of the working groups members The holders of the $veDSCI token will vote to elect the members of the working group. Anyone can apply directly or can be nominated by a member of the DAO. Applications will be made through proposals. 6.2 Seasons Seasons are a set period of time for the execution of DAO operations. Each season budget allocation, projects and members will be decided for each working team. At the moment the duration of a season is 6 months, but this can be modified by members of the DAO through a proposal. 6.3 Working Groups The DeSciWorld DAO operates through the collaboration of 4 permanent working groups (WGs) (including subgroups) that are outlined below: 1. Product: The product WG designs, builds, and tests the products that make up the DeSciWorld ecosystem. 2. Governance: The governance WG establishes parameters to guide decisions around proposals, voting, and discussions. It also resolves any conflicts or ethical issues within the DAO. - Operations: Supports the planning and development of tools, systems, and protocols to minimize the friction in executing the vision of DeSciWorld. - Legal: Resolve/mitigate any legal matter related to the operation of DeSciWorld. 3. Community: The community WG focuses on developing strategies to promote the sustainable growth of the community. 4. Treasury: The treasury WG allocates budgets, protects, and manages the DAO’s assets in 15 accordance with the will of its members. - Tokenomics: Develops and manages the economy of the $DSCI token. 6.4 Proposals and Quorum 6.4.1 Proposals Proposals are the suggested decisions on how to allocate the resources of the DAO. Pre-proposals and proposals may be submitted by any holder of Microbes NFT or $veDSCI token. Prospective proposals may concern the following: - Membership: Add or remove any member of the DAO or related to any working group. Request to remove or add extra steps to be a member of the DAO. - Funding: Requesting funds from the DAO to work on internal projects and improvements. - Changes in the ecosystem: Changes in the product, changes in the flow of operations. - Partnership: Add or remove a partner project. - Outreach initiatives: Attend conferences, pay for advertising, visit a university on behalf of DeSciWorld, etc. - Any other type of proposal that is relevant to the management of resources and the improvement of the DAO. Details on the proposal process can be found here. Only $veDSCI holders are able to vote on the proposals; each token equates to one vote (1 $veDSCI = 1 vote). DAO members can delegate their votes to other members through an on-chain delegation system. 6.4.2 Quorum The quorum is based on the number of $veDSCI tokens in circulation (tokens in the treasury are not taken into account). The default threshold of the quorum is 5% of the tokens in circulation, but the proposals that imply changes in the structure of the working groups and the DAO (i.e. dissolution, maintenance or creation of a working group, the election of the WG members, etc) will have a threshold of 20%. The DAO can change the default quorum threshold by vote. 16 7. Treasury The DeSciWorld DAO Treasury is to be controlled by the Treasury Working Group and used for funding each of the other working group’s budget allocations, along with any additional expenditures voted in by the DAO. 7.1 Funding 7.1.1 Revenue Stream DeSciWorld’s Products outlined in Section 3 each produce revenue in various token currency formats. The “Revenue Stream” refers to the aggregated revenue earned across the entire DeSciWorld ecosystem. Possible implementations, to be decided by the pre-DAO governance model, include distributing 50% of the Revenue Stream to $veDSCI holders in the form of a DSCI / ETH (or USDC, tbc) LP token. The $DSCI required for this LP may be bought on the open market, using funds from the Revenue Stream. The remaining 50% of revenue generated would flow to the DeSciWorld DAO Treasury. The current products and their associated revenue-generating mechanisms are displayed below in this format: Product Name Product Description Revenue-generating mechanic DeSci Dashboard An information aggregation platform designed to make exploring DeSci easy. Web2-style advertising banner and “featured” page placement; payment taken in stablecoins, DAO-governed. NFT Spotlight A launchpad and marketplace service for DeSci-NFTs. DeSciWorld offers an all in one solution for creating custom NFT mint contracts, community building and marketing. DeSci-NFTs can be used 17 for generating funding for research or conservation, giving visual life to data sets attached to the NFT, raising awareness of causes and much more. A % of funds generated upon minting are redirected to the DeSciWorld treasury. The % charged depends on the complexity of the partnership and workload on DeSciWorld’s side. Generally, the % fee is between 5% and 20%. P2P Research Funding A platform that connects researchers and funders, and visa versa. A secure escrow system combined with novel on-chain reputation mechanics allow research to be funded independently or even anonymously. A fee charged on the total value of funding received through the platform for each research objective. Current fee proposals before official implementation are 1-5%. Community as a Service (CaaS) CaaS is a novel idea pioneered by DeSciWorld. The core idea is to connect researchers that want to outsource a portion of their work to a network of qualified, global and available participants to help in reaching their research objectives. Would-be DeScientists can register a profile with the DeSciWorld platform - anonymous or doxxed - and use this portal to perform a variety of tasks in return for payment. A fee charged on the service conducted through the DeSciWorld CaaS portal. Current proposals for the fee are: 1) Price = n+1, where n = number of DeSciWorld registered researchers. Price per researcher is to be handled by the Community Working Group and the Client. 2) Price = total base price + 0-10% fee An illustrative example: A researcher needs to analyze the carbon content of soil in coastlines around the world. Rather than make the journey themselves, they can outsource this work to DeSciWorld’s CaaS. Registered users from around the world can acquire the sample, send it to relevant local labs for processing and then submit the results to the Client. This request is evaluated prior by the Community Working Group, a price is offered to both Client and Contributor and when terms are agreed and funds are locked in escrow, the work can begin. 18 7.1.2 Ecosystem Grants Any funding received through Web3 ecosystem grants will be transferred into the DeSciWorld DAO treasury, where they will be subject to the same procedures for all funds, unless specifically stated otherwise in a prior DAO proposal, or as required by the Grant giver in terms of agreement given prior to the Grant funds’ release. 7.1.3 DeSciWorld DAO Token Holdings The DeSciWorld Treasury may receive tokens of any description to its multisignature wallet over the course of operations. These tokens may be liquidated to generate funds, in the occasion of a DAO vote that supports this decision. 7.1.4 Supporters Round Any funds gathered in the Supporters Round are to be governed separately from DeSciWorld’s Treasury, by the $preSCI token holders. 7.2 Security 7.2.1 Treasury Team Requirements Members of the Treasury working group are required to have publicly open profiles including real name, general location, public social media profiles and to be open for contact and questioning. This is to ensure that those with control over the Treasury can be held accountable for their actions, reducing the chance of a malicious attack. 7.2.2 Gnosis Safe The DeSciWorld DAO Treasury is to be held in a Gnosis Safe Multisig wallet. Signatories to this wallet should consist of members from the Core Team, preDAO and founding DeSciWorld DAO members.