### Messages

***

**Forwarded from [mattimouse](https://t.me/mattim0use)**

I have a meeting with this guy Friday, brother met him on a plane and introduced us

https://medium.com/@plumenetwork/introducing-the-plume-team-d578e5e29295

***

**Forwarded from [Josh](https://t.me/JBate7)**

i think if we scale the team we're going to need to think of some good filtering questions


***

**Forwarded from [Rafaello](https://t.me/hazara_dude)**

Writing a call for action for the EthereansOS community to start a decent marketing campagin.

***

**Forwarded from [Rafaello](https://t.me/hidden_account_1714436394)**

Intressting 
Very very Intressting. 

I wrote this investment and time spent as a loss, and i stopped writing a bigg plan with different parts, cus i saw some friction in here, enough not to unite the team, delegations and tokenholders. Creating a stalemate in the growth, finishing my dream of a financial miracle, where 1000's of devs using the protocol, creating gigantic delegations, diverse and happy investors, and Vasa buying his own island. 

Until Saturday, as the Representative of Nerds Delegation i was writing a Call for a General Mobilization of all Delegations. But i stopped half way because there was not enough will here, will to commit to the project as a *whole,* which wil ensure the intressts of the team, de delegation and the investors/holders. 

Nerds is a research and dev shop, we can build a lot of things but we want to build bigger stuff and want to see massive amounts for the EthOS treasury split.
And to reach that, its obvious, there is a need of massive influx of dev activity on the protocol. Even upscale it to 100 devs, per month. This machine Mr. Vasa has created is very robust and secure.
We want our share to be multuplied by at least x100, because its possible. 

And the plan i was working on was Pivot to Base! In short:
Gather at least 100 eth, from all treasuries, donations, even vasa puting his hands in his own pocket, a little deeper.
Gather some 50-60 people who can do some marketing chores, like making noise on social media, refining the plan, and creating many different contents.
Find a good marketing company with track records, and tell them we are going base, and we wanna go big so we have traction on optimism and ethereum too. Looking at the markets and planning moves.
When next leg of the bull comes up, we do a memecoin competition with over $70 k rewards.
And every 10 day we introduce another part of the protocol and announce any possible partnerships.
We would need at least 3 technical KOL's and 1 financial KOL.
And ofcourse all with the cooperation of the team.


Ofcourse this Call would ask for sacrifices from the team in form of more transparency and bigger funds allocation.
From the delegation it would ask its autonomy to temporarily create a united machine.
And from the community to engage a lot more. 

Welcoming all new members but also calling on Oooh dear/darling/sweet/rusted lurkers in the shadows, its action time!!