**Forwarded from [Luis Maumejean](https://t.me/Phygital_Integrator)**

Proposal for Collaboration between DeSci World and CICM to create the DAO (RC-CICM) - Research Collective CICM

Dear President Mauricio Jessurun Solomou and council,

In this era of technological innovation and scientific advancement, the Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles de México (CICM) has consistently stood out for its commitment to excellence, research, and the professional development of its members. It is in this spirit of innovation and constant pursuit of improvement that I reach out to you to present a unique opportunity that we believe could mark the beginning of a new era for CICM and its participants: the adoption and participation in DeSci World as a Research Collective (RC).

Aligning with the 10 Strategic Objectives 2024-2026 of CICM, the proposed participation perfectly aligns with the WORK PROGRAM of the XL Directing Council.

The Research Collective CICM (RC-CICM) serves society by generating kEngrams (Knowledge) that generates more knowledge, which is the basis of human progress. All without borders, and in freedom and transparency.

To the membership, granting benefits that over time will gain value for their usability, their experiences, their benefits, and the value that the tokens they own.

Internally within CICM, positioning the College as an institution at the forefront, disruptive, visionary, and value-generating. Generating a potential income stream at no cost that both the college and the current founding council of the (RC-CICM) will receive their NFTs as founders of the DAO (RC-CICM).